GETTING_STARTED.md, before:

# HA Testing Framework User Guide
## What is the HA Testing Framework?
The HA Testing Framework is an Ansible-based framework used to test the High Availability of an SAP system. It is a generic framework that can be used to test any SAP system designed to be highly available. The framework is modular and extensible, making it easy to add new test cases and scenarios. It is designed to be user-friendly and easy to understand.

## Components of the HA Testing Framework
The HA Testing Framework consists of the following components:

- Ansible playbooks and roles
- Scripts to help execute the test cases
- WORKSPACES: SAP system-specific configuration files, including inventory files, configuration files, and connection keys required to connect to the SAP system. Please refer to the [WORKSPACES](#workspaces) section for more details.

## How to run the test cases for you SAP system?
1. Clone the HA Testing Framework repository on Linux machine, which has connectivity to your SAP systems:
```
git clone https://github.com/devanshjainms/sap-automaiton-qa.git
```
2. Configure the test environment by updating the test configuration file `vars.yaml` in the root directory.
3. Navigate to the WORKSPACES/SYSTEM directory and update the SAP system configuration based on the specifications mentioned in the [WORKSPACES](#workspaces) section. You can refer to an example configuration in the WORKSPACES/SYSTEM/DEV-WEEU-SAP01-X00 directory:
```
cd WORKSPACES/SYSTEM
mkdir ENV-REGION-VNET-SID
cd ENV-REGION-VNET-SID
```
4. Navigate to the scripts directory and execute the run_tests.sh script:
```
cd scripts
./sap_automation_qa.sh
```
5. After the test execution completes, an HTML report is generated in the WORKSPACES/SYSTEM/SYSTEM_CONFIG_NAME/quality_assurance/ directory. You can copy and view this report in a web browser. Optionally, you can send data to Azure Log Analytics or Azure Data Explorer by setting the telemetry_data_destination variable in the vars.yaml file, more details about this are provided in the WORKSPACES section.

## Test configuration file

`vars.yaml` File
This file contains the variables used in the test cases. The vars.yaml file contains the following information:
- TEST_TYPE: The type of test to be executed. Supported values are:
  - SAPFunctionalTests
- sap_functional_test_type: The type of SAP functional test to be executed. Supported values are:
  - DatabaseHighAvailability
  - CentralServicesHighAvailability
- SYSTEM_CONFIG_NAME: The name of the SAP system configuration for which you want to execute the test cases.
- ssh_key_from_kv: Boolean indicating if the SSH key is stored in Azure Key Vault.
- telemetry_data_destination: The destination of the telemetry data. Supported values are:
  - azureloganalytics
  - azuredataexplorer
- telemetry_table_name: The name of the telemetry table in the telemetry data destination.
- laws_shared_key: The shared key of the Log Analytics workspace.
- laws_workspace_id: The workspace ID of the Log Analytics workspace.
- adx_cluster_fqdn: The cluster name of the Azure Data Explorer.
- adx_database_name: The database name of the Azure Data Explorer.
- ade_client_id: The client ID of the Azure Data Explorer.

## WORKSPACES
This diectory consists of your SAP system-specific configuration files required to connect to the SAP system, and execute the test scenarios. A WORKSPACE/SYSTEM/ is a directory that contains system-specific sub-directories, that is, each directory in this directory represents a SAP system. Each of this system directory contains the following files:

1. `hosts.yaml` File (required)
This file contains the IP addresses of the SAP system hosts in the following format: ```yaml X00_DB: hosts: x00dhdb00l01f: ansible_host: 127.0.0.1 ansible_user: azureadm ansible_connection: ssh connection_type: key virtual_host: x00dhdb00l01f become_user: root os_type: linux 
```
vm_name: AZURE_VM_NAME

    x00dhdb00l11f:
      ansible_host: 127.0.0.1
      ansible_user: azureadm
      ansible_connection: ssh
      connection_type: key
      virtual_host: x00dhdb00l11f
      become_user: root
      os_type: linux
      vm_name: AZURE_VM_NAME_2
```
`X00` is the SAP SID of the SAP system followed by the host type (DB, ASCS, PAS, etc.). The `hosts.yaml` file contains the following information:
- `ansible_host`: The IP address of the host.
- `ansible_user`: The user to connect to the host.
- `ansible_connection`: The connection type.
- `connection_type`: The type of connection.
- `virtual_host`: The virtual host name of the SCS/DB host.
- `become_user`: The user with root privileges.
- `os_type`: The operating system type (Linux/Windows).
- `vm_name`: The computer name of the Azure VM.

Please refer to an example `hosts.yaml` in the `WORKSPACES/SYSTEM/DEV-WEEU-SAP01-X00/hosts.yaml` file.

2. `sap-parameters.yaml` File (required)
This file contains the configuration details of the SAP system:

- sap_sid: The SAP SID of the SAP system.
- scs_high_availability: Boolean indicating if the SCS is configured as highly available.
- scs_cluster_type: The high availability configuration of the SCS instance. Supported values are:
  - AFA (Azure Fencing Agent) 
- db_sid: The database SID of the SAP system.
- db_instance_number: The instance number of the DB instance.
- platform: The type of database. Supported values are:
  - HANA
- db_high_availability: Boolean indicating if the database is configured as highly available.
- database_cluster_type: The high availability configuration of the DB instance. Supported values are:
  - AFA (Azure Fencing Agent)
- use_key_vault: Boolean indicating if the SSH key is stored in Azure Key Vault.
- keyvault_resource_id: The resource ID of the Azure Key Vault where the SSH key is stored. The jumpbox should have the system-assigned managed identity enabled, and the managed identity should have access to the Azure Key Vault secrets.
- keyvault_secret_name: The name of the secret in the Azure Key Vault where the SSH key is stored.

3. `ssh_key.ppk` File (optional)
This file contains the private key used to connect to the SAP system hosts. The private key is stored in the PPK format. If use_key_vault is false, the private key is stored in the ssh_key.ppk file. If use_key_vault is true, the private key is stored in the Azure Key Vault.

4. `password` File (optional)
This contains of the password, in plain text, for the SAP system hosts.

Commit message:

chore: Update GETTING_STARTED.md with pre-requisites for running the HA Testing Framework

GETTING_STARTED.md, after:

# HA Testing Framework User Guide
## What is the HA Testing Framework?
The HA Testing Framework is an Ansible-based framework used to test the High Availability of an SAP system. It is a generic framework that can be used to test any SAP system designed to be highly available. The framework is modular and extensible, making it easy to add new test cases and scenarios. It is designed to be user-friendly and easy to understand.

## Components of the HA Testing Framework
The HA Testing Framework consists of the following components:

- Ansible playbooks and roles
- Scripts to help execute the test cases
- WORKSPACES: SAP system-specific configuration files, including inventory files, configuration files, and connection keys required to connect to the SAP system. Please refer to the [WORKSPACES](#workspaces) section for more details.

## Pre-requisites to run the HA Testing Framework
- SAP system hosted on Azure cloud, configured with the high availability configuration. The supported scenarios are mentioned [here](#supported-scenarios). (required)
- A linux jump host running on Azure that has connectivity to the SAP system's virtual network. (required)
- A data factory, either Azure Log Analytics or Azure Data Exploerer where you want to have your test results stored in tabular structure. (optional)

## How to run the test cases for you SAP system?
1. Clone the HA Testing Framework repository on Linux machine, which has connectivity to your SAP systems:
```
git clone https://github.com/devanshjainms/sap-automaiton-qa.git
```
2. Configure the test environment by updating the test configuration file `vars.yaml` in the root directory. The details about the parameters defined in the file are mentioned in the [test configuration](#test-configuration-file) section.
3. Navigate to the WORKSPACES/SYSTEM directory and update the SAP system configuration based on the specifications mentioned in the [WORKSPACES](#workspaces) section. You can refer to an example configuration in the WORKSPACES/SYSTEM/DEV-WEEU-SAP01-X00 directory:
```
cd WORKSPACES/SYSTEM
mkdir ENV-REGION-VNET-SID
cd ENV-REGION-VNET-SID
```
4. Navigate to the scripts directory and execute the run_tests.sh script:
```
cd scripts
./sap_automation_qa.sh
```
5. After the test execution completes, an HTML report is generated in the WORKSPACES/SYSTEM/SYSTEM_CONFIG_NAME/quality_assurance/ directory. You can copy and view this report in a web browser. Optionally, you can send data to Azure Log Analytics or Azure Data Explorer by setting the telemetry_data_destination variable in the vars.yaml file, more details about this are provided in the WORKSPACES section.

## Test configuration file

`vars.yaml` File
This file contains the variables used in the test cases. The vars.yaml file contains the following information:
- TEST_TYPE: The type of test to be executed. Supported values are:
  - SAPFunctionalTests
- sap_functional_test_type: The type of SAP functional test to be executed. Supported values are:
  - DatabaseHighAvailability
  - CentralServicesHighAvailability
- SYSTEM_CONFIG_NAME: The name of the SAP system configuration for which you want to execute the test cases.
- ssh_key_from_kv: Boolean indicating if the SSH key is stored in Azure Key Vault.
- telemetry_data_destination: The destination of the telemetry data. Supported values are:
  - azureloganalytics
  - azuredataexplorer
- telemetry_table_name: The name of the telemetry table in the telemetry data destination.
- laws_shared_key: The shared key of the Log Analytics workspace.
- laws_workspace_id: The workspace ID of the Log Analytics workspace.
- adx_cluster_fqdn: The cluster name of the Azure Data Explorer.
- adx_database_name: The database name of the Azure Data Explorer.
- ade_client_id: The client ID of the Azure Data Explorer.

## WORKSPACES
This diectory consists of your SAP system-specific configuration files required to connect to the SAP system, and execute the test scenarios. A WORKSPACE/SYSTEM/ is a directory that contains system-specific sub-directories, that is, each directory in this directory represents a SAP system. Each of this system directory contains the following files:

1. `hosts.yaml` File (required)
This file contains the IP addresses of the SAP system hosts in the following format: ```yaml X00_DB: hosts: x00dhdb00l01f: ansible_host: 127.0.0.1 ansible_user: azureadm ansible_connection: ssh connection_type: key virtual_host: x00dhdb00l01f become_user: root os_type: linux 
```
vm_name: AZURE_VM_NAME

    x00dhdb00l11f:
      ansible_host: 127.0.0.1
      ansible_user: azureadm
      ansible_connection: ssh
      connection_type: key
      virtual_host: x00dhdb00l11f
      become_user: root
      os_type: linux
      vm_name: AZURE_VM_NAME_2
```
`X00` is the SAP SID of the SAP system followed by the host type (DB, ASCS, PAS, etc.). The `hosts.yaml` file contains the following information:
- `ansible_host`: The IP address of the host.
- `ansible_user`: The user to connect to the host.
- `ansible_connection`: The connection type.
- `connection_type`: The type of connection.
- `virtual_host`: The virtual host name of the SCS/DB host.
- `become_user`: The user with root privileges.
- `os_type`: The operating system type (Linux/Windows).
- `vm_name`: The computer name of the Azure VM.

Please refer to an example `hosts.yaml` in the `WORKSPACES/SYSTEM/DEV-WEEU-SAP01-X00/hosts.yaml` file.

2. `sap-parameters.yaml` File (required)
This file contains the configuration details of the SAP system:

- sap_sid: The SAP SID of the SAP system.
- scs_high_availability: Boolean indicating if the SCS is configured as highly available.
- scs_cluster_type: The high availability configuration of the SCS instance. Supported values are:
  - AFA (Azure Fencing Agent) 
- db_sid: The database SID of the SAP system.
- db_instance_number: The instance number of the DB instance.
- platform: The type of database. Supported values are:
  - HANA
- db_high_availability: Boolean indicating if the database is configured as highly available.
- database_cluster_type: The high availability configuration of the DB instance. Supported values are:
  - AFA (Azure Fencing Agent)
- use_key_vault: Boolean indicating if the SSH key is stored in Azure Key Vault.
- keyvault_resource_id: The resource ID of the Azure Key Vault where the SSH key is stored. The jumpbox should have the system-assigned managed identity enabled, and the managed identity should have access to the Azure Key Vault secrets.
- keyvault_secret_name: The name of the secret in the Azure Key Vault where the SSH key is stored.

3. `ssh_key.ppk` File (optional)
This file contains the private key used to connect to the SAP system hosts. The private key is stored in the PPK format. If use_key_vault is false, the private key is stored in the ssh_key.ppk file. If use_key_vault is true, the private key is stored in the Azure Key Vault.

4. `password` File (optional)
This contains of the password, in plain text, for the SAP system hosts.

### Supported scenarios

| SAP Stack | SAP Stack Type  | Cluster Type | High Availability |
| :----------- | :------------ | :------------ | :------------- |
| Central Services       |     NA     | Azure Fencing Agent         | Yes |
| Database       |      HANA    | Azure Fencing Agent         | Yes |
